All right, so moving on with arrays,
I want to examine the array search methods next.
So we need to create a new class in our arrays project.
We want to call this one arrays search.
Or probably, array search would be better.
(typing)
All right, so this code's gonna show examples
of the arrays upon research method
testing each of the following statements.
So the binarySearch Method searches for a matching element
and returns an integer indicating
the array index where there is a match.
If no match is found, the method returns a -1.
When using a binarySearch, your array needs to be sorted.
And you can perform a binarySearch
on a non-sorted array but keep in mind,
that doing that, the results cannot be relied on.
If your array contains duplicate values
there's no guarantee which index of the duplicated
elements will be returned.
In terms of the code here, we're setting up
some array data initially.
We're creating some lists again.
And we're actually performing the binarySearches.
You can see the first case there of the
binarySearch on line 31, 32.
We're doing a binarySearch on an array
looking for jkl, which is in the array.
And next on line 35, we're doing a search for aaa,
which is not in the array.
Moving on down, line 39, we're doing a search for jkl,
of which there are two elements to see what happens.
And finally, line 43 we're doing a binarySearch
on an unsorted array for abc, which is in the array.
All right, so let's just run this.
And just looking at the test data there again as well.
So this code demonstrates that the valid
and reproducible results of searching a sorted array
with no duplicates, either the index is returned
where there is a match, or a -1 is returned
when no match is found.
And you can see that in the first two lines of output.
Now although the third search did return
the first instance of jkl, we should rely
on the Java documentation which says
that this may not be reliable on each call to this method.
And on the fourth search, which is the fourth line
of output, on an unsorted array,
it returned -1, although abc's definitely in the array.
So importantly, remember to sort your array
before using this method.
If you want the first match in an array
which might have duplicates, use List.indexOf
instead, that method.
And we'll talk more about that later.
I'm gonna add some code that looks at arrays.mismatch now.
(typing)
Okay, so there's the code.
Now since I've previously talked about an array prefix,
I can simply say that mismatch returns
the index where the prefix no longer applies.
So, if I run this code now.
You can see there that the result of mismatch
is the index where the elements stop matching
the end of the prefix, in other words.
Right, so finally now, I want to review
some of the list search methods.
So I'm gonna paste some code in for that.
(typing)
Okay, so there's the code.
I'll just scroll back up to the top of the code
that I've pasted which the first line was line 57.
Now in this code, we use contains and containsAll
to see if an element or a list of elements
is contained in the list.
These methods return true or false.
The containsALL method does not require
the elements to be in the same order to return true.
And last index option, should hopefully be familiar
because we discussed those when we were talking about
the string class previously in the course.
So see these methods return the first index
or the last index of the element it matches in the array.
One thing to note, is that unlike strings,
these two methods don't include an overloaded method
with an offset.
All right, so let's run this code.
And we can see the output there,
which should be pretty much as you would expect.
All right, so let's stop here.
So far, we've covered the first two categories
of array methods in our tour kit.
In the next video, we'll start looking
at the data manipulation methods
and data transformation methods.
See you in the next video.